# GENERATED FILE - do not edit by hand.
# Source PDF: knowledge/Volkswagen-India-Safety-Manual.pdf
# Regenerate:  bash knowledge/refresh_txt.sh

We Care
Safety Guide
Steer in the right direction.
Steer towards safety.
Preface




          Your safety is of utmost significance to us. It will not be a
          tall claim to say that Volkswagen is synonymous with
          safety. To make sure that you are safe when you are in
          one of our cars, we subject all our cars to rigorous tests.


          At Volkswagen, we believe in both prevention and
          protection. Our thoughtful features of active and passive
          safety along with features added especially for children


          highlight this philosophy. The Taigun, for instance, comes
          with 40+ world-class safety features. And has recently
          been awarded a prestigious 5-star Global NCAP safety
          rating. Making it India's Safest SUVW. A reflection of the
          uncompromising standards that make a Volkswagen, safe
          like a Volkswagen.


          Build Quality, Safety & being Fun-to-drive are part of
          Volkswagen’s core DNA. And is integral to everything we
          do. It is safe to say that once inside a Volkswagen, you're
          in safe hands. Browsing this safety guide will acquaint
          you with the features designed to protect you.
Contents

Introduction                                                                                                                                                  1

Active Safety                                                                                                                                                 4
       Electronic Stabilisation Control – ESC
       Anti-lock Braking System – ABS
       Traction Control System – TCS
       Electronic Brake Force Distribution – EBD
       Parking Sensors

Passive Safety                                                                                                                                               12
       Seatbelt
       Supplemental Restraint System - (SRS) Airbags
       Child Seats
       Child Door Lock
       Chassis, Stiff Roof And Crumple Zones

Customer Safety Precautions                                                                                                                                  28
       Safety Through Service Maintenance
       Safety by Using Genuine Parts
       Explanation of Dashboard Symbols
       Seasonal Safety Tips Maintaining safety on the Road

EURO NCAP Safety Standards                                                                                                                                   40

FAQs                                                                                                                                                         41

Important Contact Details                                                                                                                                    42

Terms & Conditions                                                                                                                                           43




This manual is for guidance and reference purposes only. Features mentioned in this manual may not be available in all models /variants. Kindly refer your
owner’s manual for further details.
Introduction




Why only Volkswagen can build a Volkswagen

                                     Less of a car. More of an armour.
                                     Carved out of galvanised steel, sourced from the finest steel makers in the world,
                                     Volkswagen cars are sturdier and safer by far. They also come with a 6-year
                                     anti-perforation warranty.


                                     Sturdy as shell.
                                     A roof laser welding process seamlessly welds the roof to the body of the car, creating a
                                     dampness-proof flawless beauty.


                                     Even our paints make the car stronger.
                                     Every Volkswagen car undergoes a unique 11-stage preparation process of chemicals
                                     and paints. This entire procedure ensures stone chip resistance, colour adhesion, UV
                                     protection and anti-corrosion.


                                     Destruction test room.
                                     At Volkswagen we not only assemble a car, but also tear it apart. It is done in a special
                                     chamber called the destruction test room. This is done with a car of every model, every
                                     month; just to make sure that every part of the car complies with the most stringent
                                     Volkswagen standards of quality and safety.


                                     Advanced machines to help make advanced marvels.
                                     It’s not just people that work to achieve the perfect body. At Volkswagen, inline
                                     measurement robots, with camera lens attached, measure the body accuracy of every
                                     car. Zero error body means a rigid and compact car that feels like new for years. Anything
                                     other than perfect and immediate corrective action is carried out.




                                                                                                                                  1
Subject to respective Warranty Terms and Conditions
Safety Features




 Robust Body Structure                         Roll Over Protection

 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)                Up to 6 Airbags

 Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD)     Tire Pressure Deflation Warning

 Hydraulic Brake Boosting                      Auto-Dimming IRVM

 Brake Assist (BA)                             3-point Seatbelts for All Occupants

 Brake Disc Wiping                             Park Distance Control & Rear-View Camera

 Multi Collision Brakes                        Child Seat Mount

 Electronic Stability Control                  3 Rear Head Restraints

 Hill Hold Control                             Emergency Door Locking/Unlocking

 Traction Control System                       Rain/Light Sensor

 Electronic Differential Lock (EDS with XDS)   Auto Coming/Leaving Home Lights

 Advanced Differential Lock (EDS with XDS+)




                                                                                          2
Defining Safety
Active Safety

All systems which actively intervene to help defuse critical driving situations and prevent accidents from happening
come under the heading of active safety.

Driver assistance systems such as ESC, Brake Assist, Front Assist and Side Assist are of central importance in this
respect. The active safety systems include the following systems, for example:
   Electronic Stabilisation Control - ESC                                          EDS with XDS
   Anti-lock Braking System - ABS                                                  EDS with XDS+
   Traction Control System - TCS                                                   Roll over protection
   Electronic Brake Force Distribution - EBD                                       Tire pressure deflation warning
   Parking Sensors                                                                 Auto dimming IRVM
   Hydraulic Brake Boosting                                                        Rain/light sensors
   Brake Assist, Brake disc wiping                                                 Park distance control with rear view camera
   Hill Hold




Passive Safety
Passive safety refers to all design engineering measures which serve to protect vehicle occupants from external
impacts and to minimize the risk of injuries in the event of an accident.

It refers particularly to what happens in the event of a collision and includes the protection of other road users (partner
protection).

Besides the seat belt system, the most important passive safety features in our cars include the airbags, the
"deformation-resistant" occupant cell and the front and rear deformation zones. These provide a substantial amount of
protection for passengers by dissipating the impact energy. Taken together with the active safety aspects.

The most important passive safety features in modern vehicles include:
   Seatbelts                                                                     Multi collision brakes
   Supplemental Restraint System - (SRS) Airbags                                 3 point seatbelts for all
   Child Seats                                                                   Adjustable head restraints for all
   Chassis, Stiff Roof and Crumple Zones                                         ISOFIX child seat anchors




The combination of active and passive safety features helps to ensure optimum protection for all occupants of the vehicle.



Airbags are designed for Adult occupant protection only. Always use seat belts as primary safety measure.

                                                                                                                                 3
Active Safety




                4
Electronic Stabilisation Control (ESC)




                                                                                                                     Have a safe drive,
                                                                                                                     no matter what
                                                                                                                     the surface.


Functionality
Our Electronic Stabilisation Control (ESC) detects critical situations at an early stage, and takes action to stop skidding
and help bring your car safely back under control.



Safety Tips
    Apply brakes on turnings to avoid accidents.
    Always use brakes before sharp turns, so that the car doesn’t lose control.
    The systems ABS, BAS, TCS and EDL are integrated in the ESC. The ESC is always switched on. In certain situations
    when the traction achieved is not sufficient, ESC can be switched off by pressing the button in the infotainment
    system. Always ensure that ESC is switched back on again, once traction is sufficient.




Impact - With ESC                                                                  Impact - Without ESC




Features mentioned in this section may not be available in all models / variants. Kindly refer your owner’s manual for further details.

                                                                                                                                          5
Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)




Brakes that aid maneuverability.


Functionality
The ABS prevents the wheels from locking when the brakes are applied up until the point where the vehicle is nearly
stationary and assists the driver in steering the vehicle and keeping it under control. This means that the vehicle is less
likely to spin, even when the brakes are fully applied.



Safety Tips
   The ABS is not functioning correctly if the ABS indicator lamp does not go out or comes on whilst the vehicle is in
   motion. The vehicle can be stopped using the normal brakes only (without ABS). The protection provided by ABS is
   no longer available. Go to a qualified workshop as soon as possible.

   Depress and hold the brake pedal with force. Do not take your foot off the brake pedal or reduce the force on the
   brake pedal.




     Impact - With ABS




                                                                                         Braking Point
     Impact - Without ABS




                                                                                                                              6
Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)
    Do not ‘pump’ the brake pedal or reduce the pressure on the brake pedal.

    Steer the vehicle whilst the brake pedal is fully depressed.

    The ABS will switch off when the brake pedal is released or if the pressure on the brake pedal is reduced.

    If the ABS fails, the ESP, TCS and EDL will also cease to function.



Important Notes:
    On certain surfaces, such as gravel or firm ground covered by snow, the standards of ABS system may have the
    effect of increasing the braking distance.

    A sensor mounted in the brake pad that warns you when the pads have worn to the point where they need
    replacing. When this happens the sensor is ground against the brake disc and a warning light comes on in the
    instrument panel.

    Driving with worn brake pads or with a faulty brake system can cause accidents and serious injuries.




                                Braking distance               Braking distance with old/worn
                                with a fully                   or inferior quality brakes
                                functional brake.




                                                                                               Oblique wear, tangential (mm) / Total wear (g)

                                                                                               0     20    40    60    80    100   120    140


                                                           The lower the wear, the
                                                           longer the service life.
                                                           The faster a brake pad
                                                           degrades, the sooner it
                                                           needs to be changed.




                                                                                               0    0.2    0.4   0.6   0.8    1     1.2   1.4




Observation: When the ABS is taking corrective actions, there is a pulsing movement in the brake pedal with some noise which is usual
in ABS functioning.




                                                                                                                                                7
Traction Control System (TCS)

Maintains traction
for a safe driving
experience.




Functionality
The TCS reduces the engine output if wheel spin occurs and adapts the output to suit road surface conditions.
TCS helps the car to start moving, accelerate and climb gradients in unfavorable road conditions.



Safety Tips
    The TCS can be switched on and off manually.
    When the engine is running, the TCS can be switched off by pressing the button OFF.
    The TCS should only be switched off in situations when the traction achieved is not sufficient. For example:




When driving in deep snow or on loose surfaces.                                    When ‘rocking’ the car backwards and forwards
                                                                                   to free it from mud.



Features mentioned in this section may not be available in all models / variants. Kindly refer your owner’s manual for further details.




                                                                                                                                          8
Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD)




Balanced and efficient braking, always.


Functionality
Every car’s centre of gravity shifts forward when you brake. This creates a reduction in grip which can cause the rear
wheels to lock. EBD ensures maximum braking performance on all wheels and prevents the rear end from swerving
out because of over-braking at the rear wheels.




   Impact - With EBD




                                                                                                         Shorter stopping distance
   Impact - Without EBD




                                                                                        Longer stopping distance




Important Note
Electronic brake force distribution operates as part of the ABS function. The EBD operating range ends at the point
where ABS control cuts in.




Features mentioned in this section may not be available in all models / variants. Kindly refer your owner’s manual for further details.   9
Parking Sensors




Functionality
City driving often finds drivers having to manoeuvre their cars into tight parking spots. This sometimes results in minor
damages. Parking sensors make your job easier by warning you when you’re getting too close to something, thus
preventing small knocks and scratches.


Impact - With Parking Sensors                                                      Impact - Without Parking Sensors




Features mentioned in this section may not be available in all models / variants. Kindly refer your owner's manual for further details.

                                                                                                                                          10
Parking Sensors
Safety Tips
    Never park the vehicle so that parts of the exhaust system can
    come into contact with any inflammable material underneath the
    vehicle, e.g. leaves, dry grass, spilt fuel.




    Always apply the handbrake fully when the vehicle is parked.




    When facing uphill, turn the wheels so that they face the centre of the road.

    The convenient Hill Hold Control function prevents your car from rolling back
    when pulling away on a slope or during a hill start.

    The Hill Hold Control operates for approximately two seconds.



    When facing downhill, turn the wheels so that they face the kerb.

    The Hill Hold Control function in specific models allows you to drive down
    slopes in a safe, controlled way in first gear, thanks to the engine's ability to
    govern the engine speed and apply the brakes if necessary. Hill Hold Control
    lets you negotiate extremely steep drops simply and safely. Your car's speed
    is maintained at a constant crawling pace without you having to do anything.



Important Notes
Drive carefully over driveways, ramps, kerbstones and other objects. Low-lying vehicle components such as the
bumper, parts of the running gear, engine or exhaust system could be damaged.




Features mentioned in this section may not be available in all models / variants. Kindly refer your owner’s manual for further details.

                                                                                                                                          11
Passive Safety




                 12
                      2
Seatbelts




                                                                                  Buckle up your safety.


Functionality
Seatbelts, generally known as ‘safety belts’, serve to safeguard passengers in case of collision, accidents or sudden
braking. It saves passengers from major injuries. Abiding by the Indian law and always wearing seatbelts while driving
results in reduced risk of injuries.


Safety Tips
   Seat belts are the most effective means of reducing the risk of serious and fatal injuries in the case of an accident.
   For the protection of the driver and of all vehicle occupants, the seat belts must always be fastened properly when
   the vehicle is in motion.
   Never travel with children or babies being carried on somebody's lap and fastened with the same belt.


Impact - With Seatbelt                                           Impact - Without Seatbelt




                                                                                                                            13
Seatbelts
Impact Without Seatbelts




Driver not wearing a seat belt is thrown forward.         The unbelted rear passenger is thrown forward
                                                          violently, hitting the driver wearing a seat belt.



Correct Seating Position




Correct adjustment of the seat belt and head restraint.   There must be a distance of at least 25 cm
                                                          (10 inches) between the driver and the steering wheel.




Correct seating position to have optimum safety.          Correct position of seat belts during pregnancy.


                                                                                                                   14
Seatbelts

Important Notes
Seat belts will offer an optimum level of protection during an accident only when they are positioned correctly.
A correctly positioned seat belt reduces the risk of severe or fatal injuries. A correctly positioned seat belt also
holds the vehicle occupants in position so that an inflating airbag can offer the maximum level of protection.
Therefore you must always fasten seat belts and make sure that they are positioned correctly. An incorrect sitting
position can cause severe or fatal injuries.




                                                                                                                       15
Supplemental Restraint System -
(SRS) Airbags




Your safety is our utmost concern.



Functionality
The airbags can protect vehicle occupants during frontal and side collisions by reducing the occupants’ movements in
the direction of the collision. Each triggered airbag is filled by a gas generator. This causes the airbag covers to break
and the airbags are inflated with high power in milliseconds. Once an occupant wearing a seat belt starts to sink into
the inflated airbag, the gas inside the airbag starts to escape to cushion the occupant and slows downtheir movement.
This reduces the risk of severe and fatal injuries.


Specifics
  A triggered airbag will not always prevent other injuries from occurring, such as swelling, bruising, burning and
  grazing. Airbags provide no protection for arms or the lower part of the body.
  The most important factors for triggering the airbag are the type of accident, the angle of impact, the vehicle speed
  and the type of object with which the vehicle collides. This means that visible damage to the vehicle does not always
  mean that the airbag should have been triggered.




Location and deployment range of                                   Location and deployment range of
driver airbag                                                      front passenger airbag

Images are for representative purpose only.                                                                                  16
Supplemental Restraint System -
(SRS) Airbags
Safety Tips
  The airbag system is designed so that the airbags are triggered in a severe collision. In certain types of accident
  the front, curtain and side airbags may be triggered together. The extent of visible vehicle damage does not
  indicate whether the airbags should have been triggered.

  Airbags only serve as a supplement to the three-point seat belt.

  Airbags can only be triggered once and only in certain situations.

  The seat belts are always there to provide protection in situations when the airbags are not triggered or have
  already been triggered. For example, when the vehicle collides with a further vehicle following a first collision
  or is hit by another vehicle.

Up to a speed of approx. 56 kmh, a period of approx. 150 milliseconds pass betweenthe point of impact against
a rigid obstacle and the vehicle being stationary. Within the blink of an eye, the seatbelt pre-tensioners, the airbags
and the battery cut-off (if fitted) are activated. These actions are controlled by the airbag control unit.
Upon completion of these protective functions, the airbags collapse, clearing the field of visibility in the front.




         Front

       passenger




         Driver




 Above illustration shows the principle sequence of driver and front passenger airbag and seat-belt pre-tensioner deployment. Differences may occur
 depending on the vehicle model and actual driving conditions.




Impact - With Airbags                                                              Impact - Without Airbags
                                                                                                                                                      17
Supplemental Restraint System -
(SRS) Airbags
The airbag system is part of the vehicle's overall passive safety concept. The airbag system can only work effectively
when the occupants are wearing their seat belts correctly and have assumed a proper sitting position as explained
in the Seatbelts section of this manual.

Situations when the front and side airbags will not be triggered
  If the ignition is switched off during a collision
  If the level of deceleration measured by the control unit is too low during a collision at the front of the vehicle
  During a minor side collision
  During rear collisions
  If the vehicle rolls over
  If the speed on collision is lower than the reference value specified in the control unit




      Airbags sometimes do not deploy even when a vehicle collides with a solid object and if the impact
      threshold do not reach the Airbag.

      (Airbag deployment speed depends on the vehicle model. Please refer to the owner’s manual of your car.)




       Airbags in a stationary vehicle may not deploy, even      Airbags deploy more quickly and vehicles are damaged
       when struck head on by another vehicle of roughly         more severely than described above, when the impact
       equal weight travelling at 50-60 km/hr.                   is off centre or from an angle.




                                                                                                                         18
Supplemental Restraint System -
(SRS) Airbags
Why don’t airbags deploy in low speed accidents?




If an airbag deploys in a low-speed                                              1
impact, its effectiveness in a
subsequent severe collision will be
lost. An airbag can only deploy
                                                                                          2
once, it will not re-deploy in a
second impact, as shown in the
image below.




Driver and passenger seat airbags (SRS) may not demonstrate their primary effectiveness
if collided in instances such as those below:




In rear-end collisions




In rolls and turnovers




                                                                                              19
Supplemental Restraint System -
(SRS) Airbags
Types of front passenger front airbag systems


                Volkswagen offers two different front airbag systems for front passengers:

                             A                                                              B

    Features of the front passenger front airbag that                                     Features of the front
    can only be switched off by a qualified                                               passenger front airbag
    workshop.                                                                             that can be switched off
                                                                                          manually using the
                                                                                          key-operated switch.



    • Indicator lamp on the instrument cluster display.            • Indicator lamp on the instrument cluster display.
    • Front passenger front airbag in the dash panel.              • Indicator lamp PASSENGER AIR BAG OFF in the
                                                                   top area of the centre console.
                                                                   • Key-operated switch in the stowage
                                                                   compartment in the dash panel on the front
                                                                   passenger side.
                                                                   • Front passenger front airbag in the dash panel.



                                                                   Name: airbag system with front passenger
    Name: airbag system.
                                                                   airbag deactivation.




Important Notes

 The vehicle is equipped with a front airbag for the driver and passenger. The front airbags can provide the front
 seat occupants additional protection for the chest and head if the seat, the seat belts and the head restraints
 and the steering wheel for the driver are adjusted and used correctly. Airbags are meant only for additional
 protection. The airbag system is not a substitute for the seat belts.

 Belts must always be worn, even when the front seats are equipped with airbags.
 The front passenger airbag may deploy during an accident in spite of the fault.
 If there is a fault in the airbag system, the airbag may not trigger correctly, may not trigger at all or may trigger
 unexpectedly. This could cause severe or fatal injuries.
    a. The airbag system should be checked by a qualified workshop as soon as possible.
    b. Never fit a child seat to the front passenger seat or remove a child seat that is already fitted!




                                                                                                                         20
Child Seats




  Child safety. Our priority.


Functionality
Your child's safety is a priority - for you, as well as for us. That's why we use ISOFIX child seat fittings in specific
Volkswagen cars. ISOFIX is being adopted worldwide as a safer way to travel with your children. Child seats provide
extra care and protection due to their solid built.


Integrated
 Functionality
           child seats
Depending on equipment, certain vehicle models may be fitted with integrated child seats for the two outer seats on
the rear seat bench. These seats are suitable for children aged between 3 and 12 years. Thanks to their fixed
installation in the vehicle seat, together with a correctly worn seat belt, integrated child seats offer children very good
protection in the event of a crash.




                                                                                                                                      Marking
                                                                                                                                      for the
                                                                                                                                      lower child seat
                                                                                                                                      anchoring
                                                                                                                                      points
                                                                                                                                      in the vehicle
                                                                                                                                      seat




ISOFIX system
If vehicles are equipped with the ISOFIX system, separate child seats with ISOFIX brackets can be used. In this system,
special brackets on the child seat are attached into the ISOFIX anchorage points in the vehicle.
This connection securely holds the child seat in place. The two outer rear seats and also the front passenger seat can
be used for the ISOFIX system.

Features mentioned in this section may not be available in all models / variants. Kindly refer your owner’s manual for further details.
                                                                                                                                                         21
Child Seats
Safety Tips

  If child seats are to be used on the front passenger seat, the instructions in owner’s manual must be
  observed under all circumstances.
  Particular attention must be paid to deactivating the front passenger airbag when using child seats which
  face backwards.
  Volkswagen recommends using child seats from Volkswagen's range of accessories. These child seats
  were developed and approved for use in Volkswagen vehicles.
  Children up to 12 years of age should always be transported in the rear seat.
  Child seats for the various different securing systems are available from a Volkswagen dealer.

Impact - With Child Seat                                         Impact - Without Child Seat




Always put your child in a child seat in the rear seat.
Don't let children move about in a moving vehicle. Never let a child
stand on, or below, or sit without a seatbelt, in the front passenger seat
of a vehicle equipped with a passenger-side airbag! It is extremely
dangerous. In the sudden braking before a collision, the unrestrained
child will be flung head first into the dashboard, then thrown backward
by the rapid and forceful inflation of the airbag possibly causing
life-threatening injuries.



Never place a rear-facing baby seat or
child seat in the front passenger seat.
When a rear-facing baby seat or child seat is attached to the front
passenger seat and the airbag deploys, the airbag will forcefully
impact the back of the baby or child seat possibly causing
life-threatening injuries.




Holding a child in your lap while a vehicle is in
motion is extremely dangerous. Don't do it.
In a collision you cannot protect a child by holding her.
During a 50 km/hr collision, the sudden impact will in effect increase
the child's weight 30-fold. A 10 kg child will become 300 kg more
weight than the arms can handle. Also, the child may be forcefully
thrown from the vehicle.


                                                                                                              22
Child Door Lock and
Central Locking System




Double protection for your child.



Functionality
The child safety lock is on the side of each rear doorframe. When activated, the doors can only be opened from
outside. The central locking system enables you to lock and unlock all the doors and the boot lid from one point:
 • From outside the vehicle with the vehicle key
 • From inside the vehicle with the central locking button

Certain functions for the central locking system can be switched on or off by a qualified workshop. The doors and
the boot lid can be locked or unlocked manually if the vehicle key or central locking system fails, locking the vehicle
after the airbags have been deployed.

The entire vehicle is unlocked if the airbags are activated during an accident. Depending on the level of damage, the
vehicle can be unlocked after an accident as follows:


                       Function                                                         Action

                                                                     Switch the ignition off and then back on again.
         Locking the vehicle from Inside
                                                                     Press central locking button



                                                                     Switch the ignition off and then back on again.
                                                                     OR: Remove the vehicle key from the ignition lock.
         Locking the vehicle from Outside
                                                                     Open a vehicle door once.
                                                                     Lock the vehicle using the vehicle key.



                                                                                                                          23
Child Door Lock and
Central Locking System




Safety Tips

   When the childproof lock is activated, the door cannot be opened from the inside. Never leave children
   or disabled people alone in the vehicle when the doors are locked. This may mean that these people lock
   themselves in the vehicle. They could become trapped in the vehicle in an emergency and will not be able to get
   themselves to safety.

   Persons locked in the vehicle may be subjected to very high or very low temperatures. Depending on the time
   of year, a locked vehicle can be subjected to very high or very low temperatures. This could cause serious injuries
   and illnessor fatalities, especially for small children.




Important Notes

Improper use of the central locking system could cause serious injury. The central locking system locks all doors.
Locking the vehicle from the inside may prevent the doors from being opened unintentionally and unauthorised
persons from entering the vehicle. However, locked doors can delay assistance to passengers inside the vehicle in the
event of an accident or emergency.




                                                                                                                         24
Child Door Lock and
Central Locking System
Child safety points to remember


                                                          Do not leave a child unattended in a vehicle,
                                                          even for a short time.
                                                          In any season not just summer the interior temperature
                                                          of vehicle parked in sunlight can become very high,
                                                          and an unattended child can suffer heatstroke. Also, the child
                                                          could be abducted or involved in an unexpected accident, so
                                                          don't just turn on the air conditioner and leave a child alone.




             Don't let a child play with the harness straps on the child seat.
      A child who becomes entangled in the harness straps on the child seat
  when playing may be choked or otherwise seriously injured if the fasteners
 become so tight they cannot be loosened. Should this occur, cut the harness
                                    straps with scissors or other sharp tool.




                                             Don't let a child play with windows, doors, sunroofs, etc.
                                             A child can be seriously injured when a window, door, or sunroof is closed
                                             on a hand or other part of the body. Be sure the child's hands, head, and
                                             all other parts of the body are clear of these areas before closing them.
                                             Also, be sure to use the window lock switch.




               Don't let children or other passengers stick their heads or
                                       hands out of windows or sunroofs.

  Serious injury could result if they were struck by something outside the
                            vehicle or if the brakes were suddenly applied.




                                                                                                                            25
Chassis, Stiff Roof and
Crumple Zones




Functionality
The chassis of your car comprise of functional elements, including the frame, suspension, steering components,
power train, brakes and fuel system. The strength of our body chassis significantly improves control by providing
a rigid platform for mounting suspension components.

An indispensable part of the geometry and structure of our cars. They help to maintain the structural integrity of the
roof as well as complete the car's safety cell.

Crumple zones are designed to absorb impact energy during a collision so that most of the energy is dissipated across
these zones, and not in your passenger compartment. The strong outer shell comes with front and rear crumple zones
that help to absorb the impact of a crash, increasing the safety of occupants.



Safety Tips

  Galvanised Steel

  Side Impact Crossbars




                                                                                                                         26
Chassis, Stiff Roof and
Crumple Zones
Additional safety by door mechanism and steering sense
Volkswagen cars not only match the Indian standards of manufacturing automobiles, but also must pass stringent
German standards. Every car surpasses these requirements.

We take care of the smallest of things to ensure safety. Taigun and Virtus doors have a unique 3-stage opening and
closing process. The door halts at three points before opening or closing. This ensures the doors do not become loose,
experience no vibrations in the long run, maintain ease in moving in and out of the car in parallel parking positions and
decrease the chances of getting injured while closing doors.

Volkswagen cars come with an innovative speed sensing steering; it gets stiffer with an increase in the speed of the
car. With speed sensing steering, there are lesser chances of losing control at high speeds, making it easier to drive
and safer for the highway.




                                                                                                                            27
Customer Safety Precautions




                              28
Safety Through Service Maintenance




                                                        Adapting to conditions to keep you safe.


Functionality
As a vehicle is used, all the separate components will wear down and/or deteriorate over time. Vehicles are built from the
start with this in mind. As a result it is necessary to regularly check the various components, when adjustments or replace-
ment of parts can be made as required.




                                        Brake Fluid   Window Wiper Blades




    Engine Oil



       Coolant

                                                                                                                  Brake Hoses
                                                                                                           Tyre

        V-belt
                                                                                                           Brake Linings


      Oil Filter




                             Battery Fluid    Air Cleaner Element        Brake Pads




                                                                                                                                29
Volkswagen Service Benefits
                      Wide Service Network
                      120 workshops
                      152 dealerships
                      114 cities
                      106 Das Welt Auto outlets
                      As on 11th October 2022


                      4EVER Care
                      Every Volkswagen car promises a hassle-free ownership experience, from the day you buy it.
                      Volkswagen 4EVER Care offers complete peace of mind in matters of unexpected repair work.
                      Standard 4-year / 100,000 kms warranty
                      4-year Road Side Assistance
                      3 Free services


                      3 Free Services
                          SWAGAT @ 1000 kms / 1 month
                          Value Inspection @ 7500 kms / 6 months
                          Free Labour Service @ 15,000 kms / 1 year


                      Volkswagen Standard Labour Charges
                      Standardised and transparent service charges across the Volkswagen network.
                      Know what you pay for and drive away with confidence.


                      Unmatched Road Side Assistance (RSA):
                      24x7 RSA available
                      Free of cost during standard warranty period
                      Extendable up to 10 years
                      Toll-free numbers: 1800 102 1155 & 1800 419 1155


                      Digital Services
                          VW Mobile App                                       Service Cam
                          Online service cost calculator                      Whatsapp updates
                          Online service appointment


                      Unmatched Parts and Accessories Warranty
                      All Volkswagen parts purchased come with 2 years warranty.
                      All Volkswagen accessories purchased come with 1 year warranty.


                      Service Cam
                      With Volkswagen Service Cam, we take you through the service before it even begins.
                      You will now be able to view services that are required for your car.
                      Once we have your consent on these services, these services will be undertaken on your Volkswagen.


                      Unparalleled Anti-perforation Warranty:
                      6 or 12 year warranty (depending on type and model year) against through-corrosion




Terms and condition apply. Reach out to your nearest workshop to know more.                                                30
Volkswagen Service Benefits
                                       Volkswagen Mobile Service Unit & Volkswagen assistance
                                       Now you can get the service experience of a workshop, without visiting it, with the fully equipped
                                       Volkswagen Mobile Service Unit.

                   Volkswagen Movile
                                       Services include:
                   Service Unit


                                          Periodic maintenance                           Easy availability of genuine parts
                                          Basic repair                                   Battery checks
                                          Dry wash and 3M Treatments                     Air filter and Pollen filter inspections


                                       Unmatched Extended Warranty
       Volkswagen presents
                                       Get continued protection years down the road with Volkswagen Extended Warranty.
     Extennnnnded
       Warranty
                                          Choose from 4+1 year or 4+2 year Extended Warranty products.
                                          Upgrade to our 1 year Add-on Warranty and enjoy extended peace of mind with car care for up
                                          to 7 years.


                                       Service Value Package
                                       With our promise to deliver complete peace of mind for each of our customers, we have created
                                       Service Value Packages which promise just that. These packages ensure your car is looked after by
                                       experts year-after-year without you having to worry about increasing costs.
                                       Service Value Packages include:
                                          Essential SVP – 1 year, 2 years                             SVP Lite
                                          Superior Hi5! – 4+1 year Service Value Package


                                       Body and Paint Services
                                       With our Body and Paint services, you get benefits including Volkswagen trained service
                                       executives, genuine parts, and infallible repair procedures.
                                       The body and paint repairs include Dent repair, Remove and Refit, and Painting.
                                       Enjoy assured savings and care for your car with Volkswagen quality standards.
                                       Choose any Body & Paint Value Package for your car:
                                          Lite Body and Paint Value Package
                                          Essential Body and Paint Value Package – 1 year, 2 years


       15000
        kms
                                       Higher Service Intervals
                                       15,000 kms / 1 Year whichever occurs first.


                                       Unmatched New Vehicle Warranty:
                                       Your Volkswagen is secured with a 4 year / 100,000 kms manufacturer’s warranty to ensure a
                                       peaceful ownership experience.


                                       Unmatched Paint Warranty:
                                       3 years.


                                       Do you know that your car talks?
                                       The service indicator of your car is a special feature that indicates you of its service due.
                                       So, you don't need reminders from us.



Terms and condition apply. Reach out to your nearest workshop to know more.                                                                 31
Safety by Using Genuine Parts
At Volkswagen, we are all about providing the best service experience. Our Genuine parts promise reliability, quality and
safety. Using Genuine parts not only ensures durability but also provides value for money. In order to ensure that you enjoy
endless carefree drives, we recommend that you follow recommended service maintenance schedule as mentioned in your
vehicle’s owner’s manual and always choose genuine & authentic Volkswagen Parts only.




Brakes                                                                     Air Filter
Improved braking performance, shorter braking distances.                   Reliable filtration.
Highly durable, unbreakable brake discs.                                   Ensures precisely defined airflow for full
Wear-resistant brake pads.                                                 engine performance.
Uniform braking performance.                                               Large filtering surface.
Quiet and smooth operation (no juddering or squeaking).                    Precisely tailored solutions for every engine type.
                                                                           High reliability throughout their entire service life.




Timing Belts
High-strength material prevents stretching.
Wear-resistant and highly durable.
Extremely heat and moisture resistant.
Extremely quiet and smooth operation.                                     Aero Wiper Blades
Available in kits with tensioners & reverse-motion pulleys.               Perfect cleaning performance in any weather.
                                                                          Consistent performance quality.
                                                                          Smooth operation, without skipping on the
                                                                          glass or squeaking.
                                                                          Fully effective at all speeds.
                                                                          Suitable for severe winter weather.



Dust and Pollen Filters
Stop contaminants from entering the vehicle.
Help prevent fogged windows.
Ease allergy symptoms.
Protects air conditioning units.
Reduce noxious odors.


                                                                           Lights
                                                                           A complete assortment for every vehicle model.
                                                                           Adapted to all lighting system components.
                                                                           Reliable light output and performance.
                                                                           LongLife versions available.
                                                                           Replacement lamp packs available.
Spark Plugs
Consistent performance.
Stable sparking. Low wear.
Enhanced driving comfort. High durability.                                                                                          32
Explanation of Dashboard Symbols




Your car is always thinking about your safety.


Do you know that your car talks?
We aren’t kidding. It surely does. The service indicator of your car is a special feature that indicates you of its services
due. You wouldn’t need reminders from us at all. All you need to do is listen to your car and understand what your car
wants to say.


Symbols that are communications from your car:


               Indicates a hazard in conjunction                                     Automatic gearbox faulty
               with another warning lamp
                                                                                     Automatic gearbox overheated
               Front and rear seat belts not in use
                                                                                     Warning of collision risk
               12-volt vehicle battery is not charging
                                                                                     Indicates a warning in conjunction
               In conjunction with     – engine fault                                with another warning lamp

                                                                                     The fuel level has reached the
               Engine oil pressure too low                                           reserve range

               Engine oil level too low                                              Washer fluid level too low

               Coolant level too low                                                 Bulb faulty
               Coolant temperature too high                                          Engine oil level too high or engine
                                                                                     oil level sensor faulty
               Brake fluid level too low
               In conjunction with     – brake sys-                                  Particle filter blocked
               tem and ABS faulty
                                                                                     ABS faulty
               Lights up– parking brake switched on
                                                                                     Automatic gearbox overheated
               Lights up– power steering faulty
                                                                                     Automatic gearbox faulty
               Flashes – steering column lock faulty


                                                                                                                               33
Explanation of Dashboard Symbols
Symbols that are communications from your car:


                                                                                                         Cruise control system is regulating
                   Tyre Pressure Loss Indicator faulty                                                   the vehicle speed

                   Tyre pressure change                                                                  Lights up – speed limiter is regulating
                                                                                                         the vehicle speed

                   Lights up – power steering faulty                                                     Flashes – the speed limiter's set limit
                                                                                                         has been exceeded
                   Flashes – steering column lock not                                                    Main beam or headlight flasher
                   unlocked                                                                              switched on

                   Flashes – steering column lock fauty                                                  Seat belt on the rear seat not in use

                   Keyless Access – no key found                                                         Seat belt on the rear seat not in use

                   Keyless Access – start problem                                                        Illuminated - unoccupied rear seat

                   Petrol engine control faulty                                                          Flashes – rear seat belt not fastened

                   Emission control system faulty                                                        Low outside temperature

                   Front passenger airbag activated                                                      Service events

                   Flashes in conjunction with    –                                                      Engine was shut down automatically
                   key-operated switch for airbag                                                        by START-STOP
                   deactivation faulty                                                                   Engine was not shut down automat-
                                                                                                         ically by START-STOP
                   Front passenger airbag deactivated
                                                                                                         Speed limiter faulty
                   Airbag system faulty

                   Lights up for4 s and then flashes–                                                    Lights up – speed limiter activated
                   airbag or belt tensioner with diag-
                   nostic device switched off                                                            In conjunction with – speed limit-
                                                                                                         er is regulating the vehicle speed
                   ASR deactivated
                                                                                                         Cruise control system faulty
                   Lights up – ESC or ASR faulty
                                                                                                         Cruise control system activated
                   Flashes – ESC or ASR intervening
                                                                                                         In conjunction with – cruise con-
                   Front Assist deactivated                                                              trol system is regulating the vehicle
                                                                                                         speed
                   Front Assist not available
                                                                                                         Front Assist deactivated
                   Left turn signal                                                                      Front Assist not available

                   Right turn signal                                                                     Front Assist starting up

                   Front fog light switched on                                                           Safe distance not kept

                   Gear lever is locked




Symbols are features specific and would only appear if particular features available in the car model.                                             34
 Seasonal Safety Tips




Safe through the seasons.


The climate in India is diverse, just like its culture. And keeping in mind India’s climate, we present to you some safety
tips to assist you while driving on Indian roads.



Monsoon Precautions


                                            During the rainy season, driving can be extremely tricky. Even the familiar
                                            roads are slippery and behave in unpredictable ways, and your car may be
                                            affected by the rain too. Hence, to make your driving experience safer, we
                                            bring you some essential monsoon tips you might find useful.




Rain and Flood Precautions


                                            Flooding is an unfortunate incident, and like most natural hazards it comes
                                            without a warning. Often during a flood, people in cars are stranded for days,
                                            and cars too get heavily damaged. The rain and flood tips would help you
                                            understand your car’s behaviour on inundated roads and would help protect
                                            yourself and your car from any possible damages.




                                                                                                                             35
Monsoon Precautions
Vehicle Care

  Do pre-monsoon vehicle check at your nearest qualified workshops.
  Check the tyre conditions (the tread grooves should be of min 1.016 cm in all the tyres, look for side wall cuts in
  tyres- if so, replace it immediately).
  Check the brake liners and ensure proper functioning of the brake system.
  Replace wiper blade every season.
  Ensure both the wipers, signal lights and tail lamps are in working condition.



Do’s & Don’ts


Do’s

  Before the start of every trip - regularly check whether the headlights, tail lights, brake lights and turn signals are
  working properly.
  First and foremost, slow down! The speed limit during the rains should be 20-25 kms/hr instead of 40 kms/hr
  during normal conditions.
  Keep safe distance from the vehicles ahead- the distance should be double during the monsoon season than
  during other seasons, failing which you may not be able to get adequate braking distance in case the front vehicle
  suddenly stops.
  Turn on your lights - turn your headlights on, even in a light rain, or in gloomy, foggy or overcast conditions.
  Drive in the tracks of the vehicle ahead of you.
  Watch out for brake lights in front of you.
  Handling a skid - You can prevent skids by driving slowly and carefully, especially on curves, brake before entering
  the curves, steer and brake with a light touch.
  Expressway driving - Leave lots of space between you and the vehicle in front because it takes longer to stop. •
  Watch out for oily deposits - Watch for intersections because of the oil spots on the road.
  Check your brakes - If you successfully pass through a deep-water hazard, test your brakes.
  Lastly, drive safely, arrive safely.



Don’ts

  Do not brake suddenly while driving in the rain, instead control the speed with the accelerator, pump the brake
  pedal and apply the brake slowly.
  Do not suddenly swing the vehicle while driving in the rain.
  Avoid driving in the rain during night-time (after sunset). Never drive beyond the limits of visibility.
  Don’t drive in heavy rain - When visibility is so limited that the edges of the road or other vehicles cannot be seen
  at a safe distance.
  Never drive through moving water if you can't see the ground through it; your vehicle could be swept off the road.
  Avoid off-road driving - It's hard to judge the actual depth of puddles and you can easily get stuck.




                                                                                                                            36
Monsoon Precautions
Driving Safety Tips

  Carry out a thorough pre-monsoon check of your vehicle, including batteries, tyres, electrical wiring, engine fluids
  and wipers.
  Keep a bottle full of windshield wiper fluid.
  Pre-plan your journey- keep an umbrella, a raincoat, first aid kit, adequate quantity of drinking water, some dry
  eating stuff and emergency contact numbers in your vehicle.
  Keep a torch light, a hammer or a spanner inside the car to break the glass in case you are trapped in the car.
  Gather information about adverse weather conditions, potential flooding spots and alternate routes well in
  advance.
  Be mentally prepared to deal with emergencies and have contingency plan in place.
  While driving, reduce speed, moderate acceleration, and moderate braking action. Do not take quick turns to avoid
  skidding.
  Keep adequate safe driving distance from the vehicle ahead, the distance should ideally be double during the
  monsoon season compared to the normal season.
  Turn on your headlights during a heavy shower or in gloomy, foggy or overcast conditions. Not only does this help
  you see the road, but also helps other drivers see you.
  Drive in the tracks of a vehicle ahead of you. Watch out for brake lights in front of you.
  Watch out for oily deposits on roads and move at a very low speed.
  If the exhaust is underwater, rev the engine and slip the clutch to change gears and move. The fast moving
  exhaust gases will prevent water from entering the tail pipe.
  Avoid traversing in deep water.
  Overcome front end skids, release the brake and let the front wheels roll freely to regain traction and steering
  control.
  For rear end skids, take foot off the accelerator and turn wheels in the direction that the rear of the vehicle is
  skidding, and pump brakes lightly.
  Remember, at any time, your life is more precious than your vehicle. If stranded in a vehicle, leave the vehicle and
  move to an elevated place and ask for help. Do not walk through flowing water before you are sure about the
  firmness of the ground.
  Be mindful of slips, trips & fall hazards (slippery surfaces, open manholes). Use the right kind of footwear with
  good anti-skid sole.




                                                                                                                         37
Rain and Flood Precautions
Safety precautions

  Driving on a flooded road may cause the engine to stall as well as cause serious vehicle malfunctions such as
  shorts in electrical circuits and engine damage from water immersion.
  Never try to restart an engine which has stalled due to flooding. This may lead to serious permanent damage to
  the engine.
  If your vehicle has stalled after passing through water, get it towed to the nearest qualified workshops for a
  thorough inspection. (For towing precautions, please refer to Owner’s Manual of your vehicle.)
  In the event that you drive on a flooded road, be sure to have your vehicle checked up thoroughly at a Volkswagen
  Dealer.



Do’s & Don’ts


Do’s

  When the water level is above the tyre level, stop driving.
  When the water level is below the tyre level, and you must drive, follow these steps: shift to first gear; press
  accelerator to increase engine RPM in order to avoid blockage of silencer by water; after crossing flooded area,
  continue to accelerate the engine to clean silencer.
  If the vehicle is submerged in flood water, an expert technician needs to inspect the damages, transmission,
  electrical and electronic components.
  If the vehicle has been submerged in water for a long time, you must replace all the lubricants and fluids and
  check for proper operations of systems and mechanisms.



Don’ts

  When the water level is below the tyre height and you must drive - if you need to slow down, don’t reduce the
  engine speed. Instead use the clutch.
  If the vehicle is submerged in flood water, don’t start the car by any means (kick or push starter). Doing this can
  cause severe damage to the engine.
  Do not drive on a road that has flooded after heavy rain, etc. Doing so may cause severe damage to the vehicle.




                                                                                                                        38
Maintaining Safety on the Road
       Be well acquainted
       with the tyres
       Always check your tyre pressure.
       Make sure they’re in good shape
       and keep a spare handy at all times.
                                               Space is important
                                               Be at a distance from the car ahead.
                                               Do not tailgate, because it won’t
                                               take you ahead but only increase the
       Don’t use your phone                    risk of a collision.
       while driving
       Keep away from all distractions,
       especially your mobile phone when
       you are driving. Strictly avoid
       attending to calls and texting when     Remember to buckle up
       you are in the driver’s seat.           Always wear your seatbelts. Insist on
                                               everyone else travelling in the car to
                                               wear seatbelts.
       Obey traffic rules
       You’re in a hurry. But so is everyone
       else. Violating traffic rules only
       adds to the chaos which would
       further delay your journey and may
       land you in a serious accident.         Do not overload your car
                                               Do not overload your car with more
                                               people or goods than it is designed
                                               to carry. This affects the perfor-
       Watch your children                     mance of the car and may cause you
       Children can often be a cause of        to lose control.
       distraction while you’re driving.
       Talk to them and make them
       understand that it’s important for
       your and their safety, that they        Share the responsibility
       maintain a calm environment while       For long trips, don’t drive solo. Have
       inside the car.                         someone with you who could drive
                                               while you take some rest or a nap.
                                               Drive again when you feel energized.
       Take a break
       Tiredness is one of the major
       reasons behind road accidents. If
       you feel sleepy while driving, take a
       break. Rest for at least 15 minutes     Do not drink and drive
       after every 3 hours of driving.         Drinking while driving or before it is
                                               dangerous and potentially lethal.
                                               This way you not only jeopardise
                                               yourself and your passengers but
                                               also pedestrians and other vehicles.

       Keep calm and drive on
       Always have a calm mind and avoid
       road rage and frustration while
       driving.
                                               Do your part
                                               Be responsible by informing traffic
                                               authorities / the police in case you
                                               encounter rash drivers and accidents
                                               on the road.




                                                                                        39
FAQs
1. What should I do when the engine does not start?
Ans: It may be becausa vehicle battery is discharged. Try to Jump start or recharge vehicle battery.
     It may be that an incorrect vehicle key is being used - Use a valid vehicle key to avoid this situation. It may be
     that fuel level is too low. Refuel the tank with recommended fuel.


2. What precautions should I take if the road ahead is not lit up properly?
Ans: It might be due to the following reasons:-
     Headlights are set for driving on the left or right, or headlights are set too high up. Bulbs are defective or the
     dipped beam headlights are not switched on. In certain situations you can switch the headlights on for driving
     on the left or right. Adjust the headlight range, change the bulbs. Switch on dipped headlights.


3. Fuel consumption of my vehicle is higher than indicated. What is the cause of this irregularity?
Ans: It might be due to the following:
     a.   Short journeys and uneven acceleration - accelerate evenly in short journeys
     b.   An electrical consumer is switched on – switch off all consumers that are not needed
     c.   Fault in engine management system - have the fault rectified from the authorized service center
     d.   Tyre pressure is too low - adjust the tyre pressure as recommended for the tyre size
     e.   Driving at high engine speed - select a high gear for fuel economy
     f.   Driving in hilly regions or driving with a heavy load - you tend to use more fuel in such situations


4. What should I do in a vehicle breakdown situation to avoid further damage?
Ans: To ensure your own safety and the safety of your passengers, observe the following points in the given order:
     •    Stop the vehicle at a safe distance away from moving traffic and on a suitable surface
     •    Switch on the hazard warning lights using the button
     •    Apply the handbrake firmly
     •    Select the neutral position or move the selector lever to ‘P’
     •    Stop engine and remove the key from the ignition
     •    Make sure all occupants exit the vehicle away from moving traffic and move to safety, for instance behind
          the safety barrier.
     •    Take all vehicle keys with you when you leave the vehicle.
     •    Place the warning triangle in position to draw the attention of other road users to your vehicle
          Allow the engine to cool down and, if necessary, use expert assistance.




                                                                                                                          40
Important Contact Nos.
Your feedback is valuable to us:
     If you wish to give us your feedback directly, you may contact Volkswagen 24X7 Toll Free No. 1800 209 0909.
OR
     If you wish to e-mail your feedback, write to us at customer.care@volkswagen.co.in

Volkswagen Roadside Assistance - Assistance is never out of bounds.
Volkswagen Roadside Assistance
24 x 7. Anytime. Anywhere.
Call: 1800 102 1155, 1800 419 1155




                                                                                                                   41
Terms & Conditions
•   Every safety feature mentioned is model and variant specific.
•   Please refer user manual to check the availability of specific safety feature in your vehicle.
•   Please refer user manual for the detailed information on functionality of each safety feature and the optimum
    applications of safety features.
•   Images used are for representation purpose only.
•   Vehicle tests are performed under control environment and results may vary if change in test conditions.
    Kindly visit the nearest workshop to know exact details on service features of your car.




                                                                                                                    42
Volkswagen Group Sales India Private Limited
CIN: U50401MH2007FTC168439
Silver Utopia, 3rd and 4th floor, Cardinal Gracious Road,
Chakala, Andheri (East), Mumbai - 400099
Printed in India
Subject to change without notice
Issue: October 2022
Internet: www.volkswagen.co.in
